# sum-basic

My implementation of the SumBasic auto-summarizor for multi-document summarization (for Question 1 of Assignment #4 (COMP 599, McGill University)). SumBasic is described in the following paper: Nenkova, Ani, and Lucy Vanderwende. "The impact of frequency on summarization." Microsoft Research, Redmond, Washington, Tech. Rep. MSR-TR-2005-101 (2005).

### Usage

```
python sumbasic.py <method_name> <file_n>*
```

`method_name` refers to the summarization method to use (`leading`: Leading baseline, `simplified`: Simplified SumBasic with no non-redunancy update, `original`: Original version of SumBasic) and `file_n` is a list of files to summarize. The summary is printed to standard out. Here's how you would run the original version of SumBasic on the first cluster of documents in the repository:

```
python sumbasic.py original ./docs/doc1-*.txt
```

### Data

The `docs` folder contains 12 documents, organized into 4 clusters of 3 documents (`doc1-2.txt` refers to document #2 in cluster #1). Each document is a news article on the topic of Angelina Jolie's preventative cancer treatment in recent years (Here's a [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angelina\_Jolie\#Cancer\_prevention\_treatment) to the Wikipedia blurb on the subject). Each cluster consists of 3 articles, one from the _Daily Mail_, another from _Mirror_, and the last from the _Belfast Telegraph_ (except for cluster #1, where the last is from _New York Daily News_), each published around the same time with the same subject matter. Refer to `docs/info.json` for the meta-information on each article and `summaries.json` for the summaries of each article generated by each of the methods.

### License

MIT
